#summary Installation of RAFT on various platforms.

= Installation =

RAFT is written in Python and PyQT. This is done so that the application can be multiplatform. RAFT is a Python 2.x application, Python 3.x is not supported at this time. 

You must use a version of Python that is greater than 2.6.5. Other versions may work, but are untested.

=== Dependencies === 


== <font color="blue">OSX</font> ==
*Note* We still do not have an installable binary available for Mac OSX. It will be necessary to download the source and use your installed environment. 

Versions of OSX that are supported are 10.6 (Snow Leopard) and 10.7 (Lion). Other versions should work, but are just untested.

The absolute quickest and easiest way to get RAFT up and running on the Mac is to use {{{MacPorts}}} http://macports.org to install a new Python environment as well as all of the dependencies. This will change once we have a stand alone application but will still be necessary to run the SVN version of RAFT. 

=== Install ===
Ensure that you have the development tools installed that came from Apple prior to installing {{{MacPorts}}}.

Install {{{MacPorts}}} and configure environment.

Use the following command to install dependencies.

<code>
sudo port install <package_name>
</code>

Install the following packages with {{{MacPorts}}}
<pre>
python26 or python27
qscintilla
lxml
qt4-mac
</pre>
Depending on which version of Python you installed use the prefix py26 or py27 to the following packages. The following assumes you installed python26. If you installed python27 just substitute it in front of the following packages.
<pre>
py26-pyqt4
py26-qscintilla
</pre>
You will have to wait until everything is compiled and installed. Feel free to grab a cup of coffee because it's going to be a while.

You have the option to use the python_select command to make the macports version of Python the default for the system. This isn't necessary unless it is a preference of yours. All this means is that you need to specify which version of Python you would like to use at the command line. For instance instead of running
<code>
python raft.pyw
</code>
You would have to run this instead
<code>
python2.6 raft.pyw
</code>
Not making the MacPorts version your default version allows the version of Python that came with your system to be called as normal for other applications that may require it.

=== Now Go ===

If everything installed properly you should just be able to run RAFT from the directory by using your installed version of python. The following assumes Python 2.6 was used from MacPorts.

<code>
python2.6 raft.pyw
</code>

== <font color="blue">Linux</font> ==

== <font color="blue">Windows</font> ==

*Note* We still do not have a self contained executable for Windows. It will be necessary to download the source and use your installed environment.

=== Getting Python ===
You can choose to go two ways when installing Python on Windows. You can choose the standard Python distribution from http://python.org or you can use {{{ActivePython}}} from {{{ActiveState}}} http://www.activestate.com/activepython

Ensure that you set whatever version of python you install to the default version for the system for ease of use.

=== Getting PyQT ===
Download the appropriate binary package of PyQT for your installed Python version from the following location.
http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/software/pyqt/download

Binary packages for Windows include QScintilla which is a dependency for RAFT. This inclusion makes life easier.

=== Getting lxml ===

The lxml binary can be obtained most easily by using one of two methods, but using Python's easy_install command or by using {{{ActivePython's}}} PyPM command if using an {{{ActivePython}}} install.
<code>
easy_install lxml
</code>
<code>
pypm install lxml
</code>
*Note* If you are on a 64bit Windows system PyPM requires that you have a valid business license to install lxml.

=== Now Go ===

After installing the previous items you should be able to run RAFT from the project directory by using the following command.

<code>
python raft.pyw
</code>